<doc id="214730" title="Henry Hallam" nonfiltered="1" processed="1" dbindex="0">
Henry Hallam (July 9, 1777 - January 21, 1859) was an  English historian.

The only son of John Hallam, canon of Windsor and dean of Bristol, he was educated at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, graduating in 1799. Called to the bar, he practised for some years on the Oxford circuit; but his tastes were literary, and when, on his father's death in 1812, he inherited a small estate in Lincolnshire, he gave himself up wholly to academic study. He had become connected with the brilliant band of authors and politicians who led the Whig party, a connection to which he owed his appointment to the well-paid and easy post of commissioner of stamps; but took no part in politics himself.  He was, however, an active supporter of many popular movements--particularly of that which ended in the abolition of the slave trade; and he was sincerely attached to the political principles of the Whigs. 

Hallam's earliest literary work was undertaken in connexion with the great organ of the Whig party, the Edinburgh Review, where his review of Scott's Dryden attracted attention. His first great work, The View of the State of Europe during the Middle Ages, was produced in 1818, and was followed nine years later by the Constitutional History of England. In 1838-1839 appeared the Introduction to the Literature of Europe in the 15th, 16th and 17th Centuries.  These are the three works on which Hallam's fame rests. They took a place in English literature which was not seriously challenged until the 20th century. A volume of supplemental notes to his Middle Ages was published in 1848; these facts and dates represent nearly all of Hallam's career. The strongest personal interest in his life was the affliction which befell him in the loss of his children, one after another. His eldest son, Arthur Henry Hallam--the "A.H.H." of Tennyson's In Memoriam, and by the testimony of his contemporaries a man of the most brilliant promise--died in 1833 at the age of twenty-two. Seventeen years later, his second son, Henry Fitzmaurice Hallam, was cut off like his brother at the very threshold of what might have been a great career. The premature death and high talents of these young men, and the association of one of them with the most popular poem of the age, have made Hallam's family afflictions better known than any other incidents of his life. He survived wife, daughter and sons by many years.

In 1834 Hallam published The Remains in Prose and Verse of Arthur Henry Hallam, with a Sketch of his Life. In 1852 a selection of Literary Essays and Characters from the Literature of Europe was published. Hallam was a fellow of the Royal Society, and a trustee of the British Museum, and enjoyed many other appropriate distinctions. In 1830 he received the gold medal for history, founded by George IV.  The Middle Ages is described by Hallam himself as a series of historical dissertations, a comprehensive survey of the chief circumstances that can interest a philosophical inquirer during the period from the 5th to the 15th century. The work consists of nine long chapters, each of which is a complete treatise in itself. The history of France, of Italy, of Spain, of Germany, and of the Greek and Saracenic empires, sketched in rapid and general terms, is the subject of five separate chapters. Others deal with the great institutional features of medieval society--the development of the feudal system, of the ecclesiastical system, and of the free political system of England. The last chapter sketches the general state of society, the growth of commerce, manners, and literature in the Middle Ages. The book may be regarded as a general view of early modern history, preparatory to the more detailed treatment of special lines of inquiry carried out in his subsequent works, although Hallam's original intention was to continue the work on the scale on which it had been begun. 

The Constitutional History of England takes up the subject at the point at which it had been dropped in the View of the Middle Ages, viz, the accession of Henry VII, and carries it down to the accession of George III. Hallam stopped here for a characteristic reason, which it is impossible not to respect and to regret. He was unwilling to excite the prejudices of modern politics which seemed to him to run back through the whole period of the reign of George III; nevertheless, he was accused of bias.  The Quarterly Review for 1828 contains an article on the Constitutional History, written by Southey, full of reproach. The work, he says. is the "production of a decided partisan," who "rakes in the ashes of long-forgotten and a thousand times buried slanders, for the means of heaping obloquy on all who supported the established institutions of the country." Hallam's view of constitutional history was that it should contain only so much of the political and general history of the time as bears directly on specific changes in the organization of the state, including judicial as well as ecclesiastical institutions.  It was his cool treatment of such sanctified names as Charles I, Cranmer and Laud that provoked the indignation of Southey, who forgot that the same impartial measure was extended to statesmen on the other side.

If Hallam ever deviated from perfect fairness, it was in the tacit assumption that the 19th century theory of the constitution was the right theory in previous centuries, and that those who departed from it on one side or the other were in the wrong. He did unconsciously antedate the constitution, and it is clear from incidental allusions in his last work that he did not favour the democratic changes he thought to be impending. Hallam, like Macaulay, ultimately referred all political questions to the standard of Whig constitutionalism. But he was scrupulously conscientious in collecting and weighing his materials. In this he was helped by his legal training, and it was this which made the Constitutional History one of the standard text-books of English politics.

Like the Constitutional History, the Introduction to the Literature of Europe continues a branch of inquiry which had been opened in the View of the Middle Ages. In the first chapter of the Literature, which is to a great extent supplementary to the last chapter of the Middle Ages, Hallam sketches the state of literature in Europe down to the end of the 14th century: the extinction of ancient learning which followed the fall of the Roman empire and the rise of Christianity; the preservation of the Latin language in the services of the church; and the slow revival of letters, which began to show itself soon after the 7th century--"the nadir of the human mind"--had been passed. For the first century and a half of his special period he is mainly occupied with a review of classical learning, and he adopts the plan of taking short decennial periods and noticing the most remarkable works which they produced.  The rapid growth of literature in the 16th century compels him to resort to a classification of subjects: in the period 1520-1550 we have separate chapters on ancient literature, theology, speculative philosophy and jurisprudence, the literature of taste, and scientific and miscellaneous literature; and the subdivisions of subjects is carried further of course in the later periods. Thus poetry, the drama and polite literature form the subjects of separate chapters. One inconvenient result of this arrangement is that the same author is scattered over many chapters, according as his works fall within this category or that period of time. Names like Shakespeare, Grotius, Francis Bacon and Thomas Hobbes appear in half a dozen different places. The individuality of great authors is thus dissipated except when it has been preserved by an occasional sacrifice of the arrangement--and this defect, if it is to be esteemed a defect, is increased by the very sparing references to personal history and character with which Hallam was obliged to content himself.

His plan excluded biographical history, nor is the work, he tells us, to be regarded as one of reference. It is rigidly an account of the books which would make a complete library of the period, arranged according to the date of their publication and the nature of their subjects. The history of institutions like universities and academies, and that of great popular movements like the Reformation, are of course noticed in their immediate connection with literary results; but Hallam had little taste for the spacious generalization which such subjects suggest. The great qualities displayed in this work have been universally acknowledged--conscientiousness, accuracy, judgment and enormous reading. Not the least styiking testimony to Hallam's powers is his mastery over so many diverse forms of intellectual activity. In science and theology, mathematics and poetry, metaphysics and law, he is a competent and always a fair if not a profound critic. The bent of his own mind is manifest in his treatment of pure literature and of political speculation--which seems to be inspired with stronger personal interest and a higher sense of power than other parts of his work display. Not less worthy of notice in a literary history is the good sense by which both his learning and his tastes have been held in control. Probably no writer ever possessed a juster view of the relative importance of men and things. The labour devoted to an investigation is with Hallam no excuse for dwelling on the result, unless that is in itself important. He turns away contemptuously from the mere curiosities of literature, and is never tempted to make a display of trivial erudition. Nor do we find that his interest in special studies leads him to assign them a disproportionate place in his general view of the literature of a period.

Hallam is generally described as a "philosophical historian." The description is justified not so much by any philosophical quality in his method as by the nature of his subject and his own temper. Hallam is a philosopher to this extent that both in political and in literary history he fixed his attention on results rather than on persons. His conception of history embraced the whole movement of society. Beside that conception the issue of battles and the fate of kings fall into comparative insignificance. "We can trace the pedigree of princes," he reflects, "fill up the catalogue of towns besieged and provinces desolated, describe even the whole pageantry of coronations and festivals, but we cannot recover the genuine history of mankind." But, on the other hand, there is no trace in Hallam of anything like a philosophy of history or society.

Wise and generally melancholy reflections on human nature and political society are not infrequent in his writings, and they arise naturally and incidentally out of the subject he is discussing. His object is the attainment of truth in matters of fact. Sweeping theories of the movement of society, and broad characterizations of particular periods of history seem to have no attraction for him.  The view of mankind on which such generalizations are usually based, taking little account of individual character, was distasteful to him. Thus he objects to the use of statistics because they favour the tendency to regard all men as mentally and morally equal. At the same time Hallam by no means assumes the tone of the mere scholar. He is solicitous to show that his point of view is that of the cultivated gentleman and not of the specialist. Thus he tells us that Montaigne is the first French author whom an English gentleman is ashamed not to have read. In fact, allusions to the necessary studies of a gentleman meet us constantly, reminding us of the unlikely erudition of the schoolboy in Macaulay. Hallam's prejudices, so far as he had any, belong to the same character. His criticism assumes a tone of moral censure when he has to deal with certain extremes of human thought--scepticism in philosophy, atheism in religion and democracy in politics.

Macaulay's essay in review of the Constitutional History is available at: http://www.history1700s.com/etexts/html/texts/1cahe10.txt

References.
;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7986334" title="Sungai Besi LRT station" nonfiltered="2" processed="2" dbindex="1">
Sungai Besi LRT station is an LRT station in Sungai Besi, a town in the Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. This station is served by the Sri Petaling line and was opened in 1996, along with 17 other LRT stations. Its location is .

See also.
 Ampang Line;
 Sri Petaling Line;
 Kelana Jaya Line;
 KL Monorail;
 Rawang-Seremban Line;
 Sentul-Port Klang Line;

External links.
 Rapid KL Official Site;
 Syarikat Prasarana Negara Bhd;










ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5826739" title="1808 in poetry" nonfiltered="3" processed="3" dbindex="2">

Events.


Poetry published.
 Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Faust, part I;
 Sir Walter Scott, Marmion ;
Births.
 February 5: Carl Spitzweg;
 May 22: Gérard de Nerval ;
 June 17: Henrik Wergeland ;
Deaths.
September 5: John Home
Melchiore Cesarotti 

See also.

Poetry;
List of years in poetry;
List of poets;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2843783" title="3 Flies Up" nonfiltered="4" processed="4" dbindex="3">
3 Flies Up is a simple variant of American football that is popular in schoolyards, and typically involves one 'flier' who throws the football to a group of catchers, each individually attempting to best each other and catch 'flies' (passes that have not hit the ground) out of the air for points. 

Once a single catcher catches three 'flies' (they do not usually need to be consecutive), he or she becomes the new flier, and a new game is played, in which the prior flier joins the rest of the catchers. This can go on for a long time, making 3 Flies Up a perpetual game that can be played indefinitely. In some versions, players make it "interesting" by playing until a specific moment or time, in which the current flier at the time is named champion.

Variations.
Another popular version of the game (different regions and schools play different ways) is called "500", and consists of the same basic principles, but with a different scoring system; The passer randomly calls out a number between 1 and 500 as he or she throws the ball to the cluster of catchers. If successfully received by a catcher, the designated amount of points is awarded, and a winner is declared once a score of '500' is reached. Many school teachers prefer this method, because it can require some basic arithmetic skills, which can be practiced through the physical activity.


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="9139633" title="Sterling College (Vermont)" nonfiltered="5" processed="5" dbindex="4">


Sterling College is a work college in Craftsbury Common, Vermont known as the smallest accredited four-year college in the country. The school is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges. Sterling is one of only two colleges in the United States to offer a degree in circumpolar studies.

History.
Sterling School was founded in 1958 as a boys' college preparatory school by former Berkshire School faculty member Norman Rioux. The school's educational philosophy was influenced by that of Outward Bound founder Kurt Hahn. The school transition to higher education during the 1970s began with the Academic Short Course in Outdoor Leadership, a 21-day program for 13 to 16 year olds. 

Faced with closure in 1974, a group of faculty chose to remain and established an academic year-long program similar to Outward Bound programs known as Grassroots Project in Vermont at Sterling Institute. By 1983, Sterling had developed into an accredited college offering an Associate of Arts degree in resource management with full accreditation by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges granted in 1987. 

Since 1997, Sterling College has been accredited as a four-year college and has awarded a Bachelor of Arts degree with concentrations in wildlands ecology and management, outdoor education and leadership, and sustainable agriculture. The four-year program builds on the Grassroots Year and second-year internship program from the  two-year program with a junior year in which many students engage in field studies abroad and a comprehensive Senior Applied Research Project. Sterling College joined the Work Colleges Consortium in 1999 and the Center for Northern Studies, which had been operating in neighboring Wolcott since 1971, merged with Sterling College in 2003.

Campus.
The primary campus is 130 acres (526,091 m²). It has 14 buildings including a woodworking shop and a library. Outdoor teaching facilities include a managed woodlot, a challenge course, a 30-foot climbing tower, organic gardens, and a working livestock farm with two solar/wind powered barns. Much of what is grown and raised is consumed in the dining hall. The Center for Northern Studies at Sterling College is comprised of a 300 acre (1,214,057 m²) boreal wetland and a building containing a library, classroom space, offices and a lounge.

References.


External links.
Sterling College;
Work College Consortium;
Melissa Kirkby, student at Sterling College five-part commentary series at Grist;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5414345" title="Amelia Cove, Newfoundland and Labrador" nonfiltered="6" processed="6" dbindex="5">
Amelia Cove is a hamlet in the St. Barbe District, near Griguet.
See also.
List of communities in Newfoundland and Labrador;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7218360" title="Deus Ex SDK" nonfiltered="7" processed="7" dbindex="6">
Deus Ex SDK is a software development kit (SDK) for the computer game Deus Ex.  It allows users to make their own missions for the game.  It was released on September 22 2000 as a free download.

 See also .
 Deus Ex mods;

 External links .
Deus Ex SDK Experiments + toturials





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7214517" title="Tefft Middle School" nonfiltered="8" processed="8" dbindex="7">

Tefft Middle School is a middle school that educates 7th and 8th graders located at 1100 Shirley Avenue in Streamwood, Illinois. It is a part of School District U46. As of 2006, Tefft serves over 800 students. The principal of Tefft is Lavonne Smiley, the vice principal is David Harshbarger. The dean's Assistant is Anthony Coleman. Tefft also has an on-duty police officer named Joe King.

Special Programs.
Tefft Middle School has several special programs. Tefft has special classes for students who are Hard of Hearing (HOH). It also is one of a few middle schools in U-46 that houses a SWAS (School Within A School) program. SWAS is a program for gifted students. The current SWAS teachers are; Reading Mr. Ziegler, English Mrs. Smerecky, Science Mrs. Hernandez, Social Studies Mrs. Kukla, and Math Mr. McLear.

History.
Tefft Middle school is named after the Tefft Family. The Tefft was an important family in Elgin history. The family helped to begin major farming and industry in the Elgin and Hanover Township area 1835 through the late 1840's. Later in 1852 Phineas Smith hauled milk via an ox team to elgin which was then sent to Chicago on the Galena and Chicago Union railroad. The railroad was built in 1850. Tefft began as the school district's first junior high school and later became a middle school. Tefft middle school was founded in 1964.

Houses of Learning.
Tefft divides its students up into groups called houses (commonly referred to as "cores" or "teams"). All the students in the same house share the same teachers (the only exceptions are physical education and rotation teachers). These are the different houses:
 Athena- includes both 7th and 8th graders;
 Atlantis- includes only 7th graders;
 Atlas- includes both 7th and 8th grade hard of hearing students;
 Gladiators- includes both 7th and 8th grade "SWAS" students;
 Pegasus- includes only 8th grade students;
 Titans- includes only 7th grade students;
 Zeus- includes only 8th grade students;

Extracurricular Activities.
Like most U46 schools, Tefft offers several extracurricular activities.

Band, Orchestra, and Chorus.
Students at Tefft have the opportunity to play in the school band or orchestra. As of 2006, students also have the option to join an in-school choir. The Tefft band is directed by Daniel Dorotiak, the Tefft orchestra by Donna Garcia, and the Tefft Choir by David Hain. Band, orchestra, and chorus members are not able to participate in rotation classes.

Rotation Classes.
Students who do not take band, orchestra, or chorus along with the five "core" classes (Social Studies/History, English, Reading, Math and Science) take "rotation" classes. These classes last six weeks and include drama, music, art, family and consumer sciences, industrial education, and computers.

Sports.
Tefft students can participate in sports. In the fall boys can play football and girls can play volleyball. In the early winter and late winter, students can play on the Tefft basketball team. The sports teams play the teams of all the other middle schools in the district. Tefft and nearby Eastview Middle School and Canton middle school have a small rivalry, due to their close proximity to each other. The boys and girls 7th grade basketball team of 2006 won the district championship, going 13-1 for both genders.

Feeder Schools.
Student attending Tefft come from several different feeder schools. Students from either Heritage, Parkwood, Glenbrook, Horizon, or Sunnydale Elementary Schools attend Tefft after completing 6th grade. After completing 8th grade, these students will attend Streamwood High School. Students who attended Horizon Elementary School and Ontarioville Elementary School will attend Bartlett High School. Some will attend South Elgin High School.Students who apply for educational academies in 8th grade will attend the high school where the academy is housed.

External links.
Tefft's website

See also.
 Elgin Area School District U46;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6693237" title="Economy of Stamford, Connecticut" nonfiltered="9" processed="9" dbindex="8">
The economy of Stamford, Connecticut is unusual for having a cluster of corporate headquarters (many of which moved from New York in the 1980s both to lower their tax bill and to be closer to the homes of their top executives). 

The city has four Fortune 500 Companies, nine Fortune 1000 Companies, and thirteen Courant 100 Companies, as well as numerous divisions of large corporations. This gives Stamford one of the largest concentrations of corporations in the nation.

Royal Bank of Scotland announced in October 2005 that it would consolidate its North American headquarters in downtown Stamford and build the largest trading floor in North America (the current largest trading floor is in the UBS building across the street from where the new building is under construction).

Large and distinctive companies.

Citizens Communications (CZN)-- headquarters, 3 High Ridge Park; a provider of  telephone, television and Internet access to rural areas and small- and medium-sized towns and cities in 23 states; it also runs a local exchange carrier service in the western states through a subsidiary, Electric Lightwave LLC subsidiary; 6,100 employees companywide; 170 in Connecticut; $2.2 billion in annual revenues; Maggie Wilderotter, CEO since November 2004;
Crane Co. (CR) -- headquarters, 100 First Stamford Place; a diversified manufacturer of engineered systems ranging from vending machines to anti-skid brakes for aircraft; 10,400 employees, 90 in Connecticut; $2 billion in annual revenues; CEO Eric C. Fast;
Conair Corporation -- sales headquarters, 1 Cummings Point Road; maker of blowdryers and other personal health care products, such as Jheri Redding and Rusk, and consumer electronic products, including telephones and Cuisinart products; the company is officially headquartered in East Windsor, New Jersey, but it is privately held by Leandro P. "Lee" Rizzuto, who maintains a home in lower Fairfield County near the Stamford office. Rizzuto is the 392nd richest American, with an estimated $925 million in assets, according to the Forbes magazine "Forbes 400" list. (Rizzuto, a cousin of former Yankees baseball player Phil Rizzuto, pleaded guilty to tax evasion in 2002. He was co-founder of the company with his father in 1959.) ;
Gartner Inc. (IT) -- 56 Top Gallant Road; provides research and analysis on the information technology sector; 3,700 employees comanywide; 730 of them in Fairfield County; $989 million in annual revenues; CEO Gene Hall;
General Electric Capital Corp. -- 260 Long Ridge Road;
General Re Corp. -- division of Berkshire Hathaway, 695 East Main St.;  a holding company for global reinsurance and related operations. It owns General Reinsurance Corporation and is one of the largest reinsurers worldwide; 895 employees in county, 3,200 companywide; $10.5 billion in revenues in 2003; CEO Joseph P. Brandon ;
Hexcel Corp. (HXL) -- headquarters; develops and makes carbon fibers, industrial fabrics and lightweight, high-performance composite materials, and parts and structures used in commercial aerospace, space and defense, recreation and other industries; 4,455 employees, 35 of them in Connecticut; $1.2 billion in annual revenues; CEO David Berges;
MXenergy (privately held) -- sells electricity and natural gas. The company's fixed-price one- to three-year contracts for homeowners and small businesses were a large part of the reason why the company grew 382.1 percent in revenue in the three years from 2002 to 2005. The company made the Inc. magazine "Inc. 500" list of fastest growing small companies in 2006, ranking No. 370. In 2005 the company had $326.1 million in annual revenue and 100 employees, according to Inc. magazine. ;
Odyssey Re Holdings Corp. (ORH) -- a global property-casualty reinsurance company, 80-percent-owned by Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (NYSE: FFH) of Toronto; 600 employees, 300 of them in Connecticut;  $2.6 billion in annual revenues; CEO Andrew A. Barnard;
Outdoor Life Network -- (owned by Comcast) headquarters, 281 Tresser Blvd. (NFL studios are there.);
Pitney Bowes Inc. (PBI)-- headquarters, 1 Elmcroft Road; the world's biggest maker of postal meters and mailing equipment and provides mailing and delivery software and services to companies; 32,700 employees companywide, 3,500 in Fairfield County; $5.5 billion in annual revenues; CEO Michael J. Critelli ;
SAC Capital Advisors LLC, a hedge fund run by Steven A. Cohen;
Sempra Energy -- trading division;
Silgan Holdings Inc. (SLGN) -- headquarters, 4 Landmark Square; a supplier of consumer goods packaging products with a 50 percent share of the U.S. metal food container market; 7,500 employees, 225 of them in Connecticut; annual revenues of $2.5 billion; Co-CEOs Anthony J. "Tony" Allott and D. Greg Horrigan;
Star Gas Partners L.P. (SGU) -- headquarters, 2187 Atlantic St.; distributor of home heating oil, propane and other fuels in the Midwest and eastern U.S.; mostly owned by shareholders; 2,700 employees companywide; revenues of $1.2 billion; CEO Irik P. Sevin;
Statoil ASA - North American headquarters, 1055 Washington Blvd.;  Statoil ASA is Norway's largest oil and gas company.
Student Loan Corp.  (STU) -- headquarters; originates, holds and services student loans; company is mostly owned by Citigroup; 550 employees, 30 of them in Connecticut; revenues of $1.5 billion; CEO Michael J. Reardon;
Thomson Corp. -- operational headquarters; One of the largest companies in Canada, Thomson retains nominal headquarters there, but the company is run from its operational headquarters in Stamford, and if it were officially a U.S.-based company it would be in the Fortune 500; $8.7 billion in 2005 revenue;
Time Warner Cable -- headquarters of this division;
UBS (UBS) -- U.S. headquarters, 677 Washington Blvd.; a financial services company; 4,000 employees in Fairfield County; The UBS trading floor in Stamford, Connecticut holds the Guinness World Record as the largest securities trading floor in the world. The 103,000 square-foot operation has 40 foot arched ceiling freeing it of columns or walls.  The size of two football fields and home to 1,400 traders and staff who handle about $1 trillion worth of transactions a day.  It is roughly 227 wide by 410 feet long.
Vineyard Vines (privately held) -- The company designs and sells ties, polo shirts, flip-flops and other products. It has a store on Martha's Vineyard and (in partnership with others) has opened stores in Greenwich, and Nantucket. In 2005 the company made the Inc. magazine "Inc. 500" list of fastest growing companies, placing at No. 202 with revenue growth of 547 over three years (2002 to 2004). In 2006, the company again made the list, this time at No. 217 with 569.4 percent growth in revenues over three years (from 2003 to 2005). Its 2005 revenues came to 23.8 million (up from 13.2 the year before) and 85 employees (up from 45 the year before), according to Inc. The company was founded in 1998.
World Wrestling Entertainment -- 1241 E. Main St.; headquarters of the company said to be the largest sports entertainment company in the world.
Xerox Corp. -- headquarters, 800 Long Ridge Road; a Fortune 500 company that makes and sells color and black-and-white printers, multifunction systems, photo copiers, digital production printing presses, and related consulting services and supplies;

Footnotes.


External links.
Stamford Chamber of Commerce;
Stamford Downtown Special Services District;
Stamford Town Center;
"Made in Stamford: A History of Stamford as a Manufacturing Center";
City of Stamford;



ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2371881" title="Oingo Boingo (EP)" nonfiltered="10" processed="10" dbindex="9">


Oingo Boingo is the first official release from the band Oingo Boingo. This was also the first release of the song "Only A Lad."  In a cost saving move, the label chose to release the band's demo recordings rather than paying for a studio session.  The song selection includes three original compositions by Danny Elfman as well as a ska inflected cover of bluesman Willie Dixon's "Violent Love."  The song "Only A Lad" was subsequently re-recorded and issued as the title track on their first long playing album.

The cover includes an illustration of a cat by artist Louis Wain from the later stages of his schizophrenia.

Track listing.
"Only A Lad"   4:08;
"Violent Love"   2:31;
"Ain't This The Life"   3:21;
"I'm So Bad"   3:49;







ENDOFARTICLE.