</doc>
<doc id="3066522" title="Shambhala Mountain Center" nonfiltered="11" processed="11" dbindex="10">

The Shambhala Mountain Center was founded by Vidyadhara Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche in 1970 at Red Feather Lakes, Colorado. Trungpa arrived in 1971 with a number of students from Tail of the Tiger in Barnet, VT, now known as Karmê Chöling.

The property is nestled on 600 acres (2.4 km²) of grassy fields, forest, ponds, and streams. The center boasts 35,000 square feet of building space for meditation, dharma talks, programs, and living quarters.

The center hosts regular Shambhala Training programs as well as yoga instruction, leadership training, children's programs, and retreats, which last from a week to several months.


Following the death of Trungpa in 1987, his followers began a fourteen-year process of building a stupa at the Shambhala Mountain Center. Completed in August of 2001, The Great Stupa of Dharmakaya Which Liberates Upon Seeing reaches 108 feet (33 m) and is open to visitors daily.

Shambhala Mountain Center is affiliated with Shambhala International.

Shambhala Mountain Center was previously known as Rocky Mountain Dharma Center (RMDC) and Rocky Mountain Shambhala Center.

External links.
Shambhala Moutain Center;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="5121228" title="Geraldton Gold Cup" nonfiltered="12" processed="12" dbindex="11">
The Geraldton Cup, a thoroughbred horse race, was first run on Dec 8, 1887 with a winners purse of £300. The race, staged over 3200m by the Victoria Turf Club was won by Baron Necktar a full brother to Dunlop, the Melbourne Cup winner of the same year. In 1887, the Perth Cup had a winners purse of £250 and placed Geraldton racing ahead of what was to become one of Western Australia's most popular races.

The Gerarldton Gold Cup is hosted by the Geraldton Turf Club.


 Past Winners .


 2006 TapDog ;
2005 Elvis Rules;
2004 Colorado River ;
2003 Robe River Man ;
2002 TapDog ;
2001 Sir Donald;
2000 Interest Free;
1999 Mount Henry;
1998 Boston Blue;
1997 Clan West;
1996 The Walrus;
1995 Pago Music;
1994 The Walrus;
1993 Pago Magic;
1992 Top Voltage;
1991 Mr. Geraldton;
1990 Great Fellow;
1989 Brazen Face;
1987 Stylish Lord ;
1986 Calingiri City;
1985 Mick's Lad;
1984 Star Warning;
1983 Stock Market;
1982 Outcome;
1981 Russian Robert;
1980 Kens Marty;
1979 Jimadaw;
1978 Under Control;
1977 Racaralma;


ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="6584222" title="Centennial Scarborough" nonfiltered="13" processed="13" dbindex="12">
Centennial Scarborough is a neighbourhood located in Toronto, more specifically in Scarborough.  The neighbourhood is bounded by Kingston Rd to the North, Port Union Rd to the East, Scarborough Shoreline (Lake Ontario) to the South and Highland Creek to the West. 

The largest segment of this neighbourhood is much more commonly known as Port Union, which was the name of the waterfront village that stood here in the 1800s.  When railroads came in Port Union did not fare well, however, in recent years a sub division has been built along the waterfront which joins the traditional neighbourhood to the new frontier.  

The neighbourhood has many mature trees, parkland and waterfront.  It is not among the most affluent neighbourhoods in the city but it is an upper middle class neighbourhood with 93% ownership.  For those who want to feel like they are in the country while in the city, this neighbourhood fits the bill. 


See also.
List of neighbourhoods in Toronto;

 External links .

http://www.toronto.ca/demographics/profiles_map_and_index.htm;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3272557" title="Félix Lajkó" nonfiltered="14" processed="14" dbindex="13">
Félix Lajkó (Serbian:             ) (born December 17, 1974 in Ba ka Topola, Vojvodina, Yugoslavia) is an ethnic Hungarian "world music" violinist and composer from Vojvodina. 

Lajkó's music is difficult to categorize; it is based on wide spectrum of influences of traditional string music from Pannonian plain. It can be viewed as a specific form of jazz, but based on traditional music of Hungary and Vojvodina.

He is a virtuoso violinist, playing with great fervor and passion, and occasionally he plays other traditional instruments, such as Cimbalom. On concerts, he usually performs with his small band, but sometimes also plays solo violin.

Discography.
Lajkó Félix 7 (2005);
Félix (2002);
Félix Lajkó and his Band (2001);
Boban Markovics Orkestar Feat. Félix Lajkó (2000);
Félix Lajkó and his Band: Concert  98 (1998);
Félix Lajkó   Attila Lõrinszky: Live at the Academy (1997);
Félix Lajkó And his Band (1997);
Noir Desir: 666.667 Club CD (guest musician) (1996);
SaMaBa Trió: Opus Magnum CD (guest musician) (1996);
Félix Lajkó and his Band (1995);
Mihály Dresch Dudás: Zeng a lélek (1993);

External links.
Official site;













ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="419644" title="Alternative education" nonfiltered="15" processed="15" dbindex="14">


Alternative education, also known as non-traditional education or educational alternative, is a broad term which may be used to refer to all forms of education outside of traditional education (for all age groups and levels of education). This may include both forms of education designed for students with special needs (ranging from teenage pregnancy to intellectual disability) and forms of education designed for a general audience which employ alternative educational philosophies and/or methods. 

Alternatives of the latter type are often the result of education reform and are rooted in various philosophies that are commonly fundamentally different from those of traditional compulsory education. While some have strong political, scholarly, or philosophical orientations, others are more informal associations of teachers and students dissatisfied with certain aspects of traditional education. These alternatives, which include charter schools, alternative schools, independent schools, and home-based learning vary widely, but often emphasize the value of small class size, close relationships between students and teachers, and a sense of community.

In certain places, especially in the United States, the term alternative may largely refer to forms of education catering to "at risk" students or students with other kinds of special needs, as it is, for example, in this definition drafted by the Massachusetts Department of Education.  Other words used in place of alternative by many educational professionals include non-traditional, non-conventional, or non-standardized, although these terms are used somewhat less frequently and may have negative connotations and multiple meanings. Those involved in forms of education which differ in their educational philosophy (as opposed to their intended pupil base) often use words such as authentic, holistic, and progressive as well. However, these words each have different meanings which are more specific or more ambiguous than simply alternative.

 Overview .

While pedagogical controversy is very old, "alternative education" presupposes some kind of orthodoxy which the alternative is in opposition to.  In general, this limits the term to the last two or perhaps three centuries, with the rise of standarized and, later, compulsory education at the primary and secondary levels.  Many critics in this period have suggested that the education of young people should be undertaken in radically different ways than ones in practice.  In the 19th century, the Swiss humanitarian Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, the American transcendentalists Amos Bronson Alcott, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and Henry David Thoreau, the founders of progressive education John Dewey and Francis Parker, and educational pioneers such as Maria Montessori and Rudolf Steiner (founder of the Waldorf schools), among others, all insisted that education should be understood as the art of cultivating the moral, emotional, physical, psychological, and spiritual aspects of the developing child.  Anarchists such as Leo Tolstoy and Fransisco Ferrer y Guardia emphasized education as a force for political liberation, secularism, and elimination of class distinctions. 

More recently, social critics such as John Caldwell Holt, Paul Goodman, Frederick Mayer and Ivan Illich have examined education from more individualist, anarchist, and libertarian perspectives, that is, critiques of the ways that they feel conventional education subverts democracy by molding young people's understandings. Other writers, from the revolutionary Paulo Freire to American educators like Herbert Kohl and Jonathan Kozol, have criticized mainstream Western education from the viewpoint of their varied left-liberal and radical politics.

 Modern forms .

A wide variety of educational alternatives exist at the elementary, secondary, and tertiary levels of education. These generally fall into four major categories: school choice, alternative school, independent school, and home-based education. These general categories can be further broken down into more specific practices and methodologies. 

 School choice .

The public school options include entirely separate schools in their own settings as well as classes, programs, and even semi-autonomous "schools within schools." Public school choice options are open to all students in their communities, though some have waiting lists. Among these are charter schools, combining private initiatives and state funding; and magnet schools, which attract students to particular themes, such as performing arts.

 Alternative school .

In education, the phrase alternative school, sometimes referred to as a minischool, or remedial school, is any public or private school having a special curriculum, especially an elementary or secondary school offering a more flexible program of study than a traditional school.  A wide range of philosophies and teaching methods are offered by alternative schools; some have strong political, scholarly, or philosophical orientations, while others are more ad-hoc assemblies of teachers and students dissatisfied with some aspect of traditional education.  Today, alternative schools cater to students who have special educational needs as well as those who would like to experience school differently.  There are similar programs that exist in higher education settings that serve adults returning to school.

 Independent school .

Independent, or private, schools have more flexibility in staff selection and educational approach. The most plentiful of these are Montessori schools, Waldorf schools (the latter are also called Steiner schools after their founder), and Friends schools. Other independent schools include democratic, or free schools such as Sands School, Summerhill School and Sudbury Valley School, Krishnamurti schools, open classroom schools, those based on experiential education, as well as schools which teach using international curriculum such as the International Baccalaureate and Round Square schools. An increasing number of traditionally independent school forms now also exist within state-run, public education; this is especially true of the Waldorf and Montessori schools. The majority of independent schools offer at least partial scholarships.


 Home-based education .

Families who seek alternatives based on educational, philosophical, or religious reasons, or if there appears to be no nearby educational alternative can decide to have home-based education. Some call themselves unschoolers, for they follow an approach based on interest, rather than a set curriculum. Others enroll in umbrella schools which provide a curriculum to follow. Many choose this alternative for religious-based reasons, but practitioners of home-based education are of all backgrounds and philosophies.

 Correctional Education .


 Other .

There are also some interesting grey areas. For instance, home-educators have combined to create resource centers where they meet as often as five or more days a week, but their members all consider themselves home-educated. In some states publicly run school districts have set up programs for homeschoolers whereby they are considered enrolled, and have access to school resources and facilities. 

Also, many traditional schools have incorporated methods originally found only in alternative education into their general approach, so the line between alternative and mainstream education is continually becoming more blurred.

 Internationally .

 Canada .

In Canada, some privately run schools receive government school funding. 

The Toronto District School Board has adopted alternative programs into their school system. Sometimes these take the form of entire schools, like Mountview Alternative School which shares space with the much larger Keele Elementary School in Toronto's High Park-Junction, and sometime they are programs within schools, like the Triangle Program, Canada's only high school program designed especially for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender students.

Then there are also schools like Divine Class, a holistic non-school that guides and certifies average people (aged 18+) how to read people, situations, and events through alternative methods such as Tarot, psychic ability, and esoteric systems.

In Quebec the Universal School of Life has been around for more than 23 years and is focused on Indigo Children and Families and has created a way of life for Indigo Families. see: http://universalschooloflife.com

 England .

Sands School is an alternative school in the UK.  It has only 65 students, with a high ratio of teachers.  The students learn at their own pace in a supportive environment.  The school is run democratically, with the students having as much say in how the school is run as the staff.  Decisions are made by voting in a weekly school meeting, where matters ranging from what colour the new carpets should be, to the employment of new staff.  The school offers a full range of subjects, and attendance to lessons is negotiated, not compulsory.  The school also educates students on a larger range than most schools, and gives students choice in what they can learn.  Their interests form a large part of what is offered in the curriculum.

 Australia .

Preshil, in Kew, Australia, was established in the 1930s. It is one of the few alternative schools in Australia that is unaffiliated with any doctrinal or theological movement. Its primary school has run since established by Margaret Lyttle in 1931, and the secondary school since the late 1970's. See also Village School, Vic; Currambena Primary, NSW; Melbourne Community School, Vic; Collingwood College, Vic; Fitzroy Community School, Vic; Lynall Hall, Vic; Berengarra, Vic Candlebark School, Vic and Brisbane Independent School, Qld.

 United States .
Terra Bella Academy, in Mountain View, CA is a publicly funded alternative public school for 8th through 12th grades with about a 1/12 student teacher ratio. The academic curriculum is affiliated with the University of Santa Clara (Santa Clara, CA, USA) and includes social interactive and team building activities. See also http://aecnews.org/newsletter_11_2006/feature.php?#terrabella

 India .
In India, beginning in the early part of the 20th century, many educational theorists have discussed and implimented radically different forms of education. Rabindranath Tagore's Shantiniketan and Mahatma Gandhi's ideal of "basic education" are primary examples. In recent years many new alternative schools have formed, like Sarang Palakad Kerala, Adharshila Saakad MP, Sita School - Bangalore, Kanavu, and Timbaktoo Collective Andhra Pradesh. At higher levels of education one finds educational alternatives like multiversity.com  that hold open knowledge as an ideal. In the last few decades holistic education, in which the environment of the student is considered an essential part of the educational process, has become popular.




 See also .

 Unschooling;
 Free school;
 Autodidacticism;
 School;
 Education;
 Alternative school;
 Gifted education;
 Special education;

 Further reading .

;
;

 Resources .

 Alternative Education Resource Organization They publish the journal Education Revolution and have a yearly conference.
 CHOICE Alternative School, Shelton, WA, USA;

 External links .
 eklavya foundation Madhya Pradesh India's premier organisation that has developed alternative material ;
 Aravind Gupta Toys allowing free use of books and toys A site that provides the BEST collection of readings on alternative education around the world.
 Iowa Association of Alternative Education;
 International Association for Learning Alternatives;
 Blueprint Education, Phoenix, Arizona;
 Sands School, Devon, UK;
 Informal Education;
 Special Education in Alternative Education Programs - ERIC Digest E585;
 International Association for Learning Alternatives;
 AltLearn - a worldwide network of Natural Learners, Unschoolers, and support groups, linked together by map;
 A Vermont High School based on Alternative Education Methods - Otter Valley Experiential High School -Experience The Alternative...Experience Your Life.
 Goddard College a progressive, low residency college based upon the ideals and theories of John Dewey - founded in 1938;
   Shimer College--a unique Great Books school in Chicago, IL;





ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="3519472" title="Theodore O'Hara" nonfiltered="16" processed="16" dbindex="15">

Theodore O'Hara (February 11, 1820 - June 6, 1867) was a poet and Confederate colonel, best known for the poems "The Bivouac of the Dead" and "The Old Pioneer".

The Early Years: Professor, Lawyer, Colonel.

O'Hara was born to Mr. and Mrs. Kane O'Hara in Danville, Kentucky before the family moved to Frankfort. He continued his education at St. Joseph Academy in Bardstown, Kentucky, where he also served as a Greek professor during his senior year. He later studied law with student John C. Breckinridge before being appointed for a position in the United States Treasury department in 1845. As the Mexican-American War was just beginning, O'Hara signed up for the U.S. Army and held the positions of captain and quartermaster of volunteers as of June 26, 1846. For excellent conduct in the Battle of Contreras and Churubusco, O'Hara was honored with the rank of brevet-major on August 20, 1847. O'Hara wrote his first poem, "The Bivouac of the Dead" in honor of the Second Kentucky Regiment officers who died in the Battle of Buena Vista in February 1847. Long before the officers were buried at the state cemetery in Frankfort on June 20, 1847, there was a dedication ceremony for a monument in honor of these men. Lines from the poem would eventually grace the gates of numerous national cemeteries. After the war ended in 1848, O'Hara returned to Washington, D.C. to continue his law practices until 1851.

The Later Years: Editor, Diplomat, Confederate.

O'Hara joined others from Kentucky in an expedition to Cuba in 1850. He commanded a regiment in the battle of Cárdenas before a severe injury. He was appointed captain of the Second Calvary on March 3, 1855 before resigning on December 1, 1856. When John Forsyth Jr., editor-in-chief of the Mobile Register became minister to Mexico in 1856, O'Hara took his place in the newspaper. He also edited for the Louisville Times and the Yeoman. He continued to follow government orders, such as his diplomatic mission into the Tehuantepec grant debate. At the beginning of the War Between the States, O'Hara joined the Confederate army and became colonel of the Twelfth Alabama Regiment. He later served with General Albert Sidney Johnston and General John C. Breckinridge, his fellow law student. After the war ended, O'Hara went to Columbus, Georgia to be in the cotton business, but eventually lost his business to a fire. He later resided on a plantation near Guerrytown, Alabama where he died and was returned to Columbus for burial. On September 15, 1874, his remains, along with those of other Mexican War officers were buried in the state cemetery in Frankfort, Kentucky. O'Hara's friend Sergeant Henry T. Stanton read "The Bivouac of the Dead" at the reinterment and said, "O Hara, in giving utterance to this song, became at once the builder of his own monument and the author of his own epitaph."

External links.
The Bivouac of the Dead;




ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="185138" title="Shabeellaha Dhexe" nonfiltered="17" processed="17" dbindex="16">

Middle Shabele (Somali: Shabeellaha Dhexe;  ) is an administrative region (gobolka) in southern Somalia. As part of the former Benadir region, its capital was Mogadishu until the mid 1980s, when the town of Jowhar became the capital. It is bordered by the Somalian regions of Galguduud, Hiiraan, Lower Shabele, and Banaadir and the Indian Ocean.

It is named after the river Shabeelle that passes this region.

 Districts .

Aadan Yabaal;
Balcad;
Cadale;
Jowhar (capital);
Mahadaay Weyn;
Warsheekh;











ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="73427" title="Detour (1945 film)" nonfiltered="18" processed="18" dbindex="17">

Detour is a 1945 film noir cult classic that stars Tom Neal, Ann Savage, Claudia Drake and Edmund MacDonald. A B-movie, it was shot in six days.  The film, budgeted for $89,000, ended up costing $117,000 to make.  To preserve the film's right-to-left orientation used in the cross-country scenes, the director reversed many of the hitchhiking shots so that the cars appear to be on the wrong side of the road.

The movie was adapted by Martin Goldsmith and Martin Mooney (uncredited) from Martin Goldsmith's novel, and was directed by Edgar G. Ulmer.  The 68-minute film was created and released by the Producers Releasing Corporation (PRC).  Because the 1945 Production code mandated that "murderers... must be brought to justice" in all films made, director Ulmer satisfied censors by ending the movie with Al the hitchhiker being picked up after predicting his arrest earlier.

 Plot .

A piano player, Al (Neal), sets off hitchhiking his way to California to be with his girl. Along the way, a stranger in a convertible gives him a ride. While driving, Al stops to put the top up during a rainstorm.  He discovers that the owner of the car has died in his sleep.  Al panics and dumps the body in a gully and drives off in his car. Later, he picks up another hitchhiker.  Vera, (Savage) a femme fatale, threatens to turn him in for the supposed murder unless he assumes the identity of the dead man to collect an inheritance.


The film has been selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.  Critical response to the film today is almost universally positive. TIME lists the film in the magazine's All Time 100 Films, and film critic Roger Ebert wrote of the film:
"This movie from Hollywood's poverty row, shot in six days, filled with technical errors and ham-handed narrative, starring a man who can only pout and a woman who can only sneer, should have faded from sight soon after it was released in 1945. And yet it lives on, haunting and creepy, an embodiment of the guilty soul of film noir. No one who has seen it has easily forgotten it."

 Quote .
I know.  Someday a car will stop to pick me up that I never thumbed.  Yes, fate, or some mysterious force can put the finger on you or me for no good reason at all.

 Cast .

Tom Neal as Al Roberts;
Ann Savage as Vera;
Claudia Drake as Sue Harvey;
Edmund MacDonald as Charles Haskell Jr;
Tim Ryan as Nevada Diner Proprietor;
Esther Howard as Holly, Diner Waitress;
Pat Gleason as Joe, Trucker at Diner;

 See also .
 Lost Highway;

External links .
 ;
;
;
Time Magazine All Time 100 Movies;







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="2375428" title="Mabasa, Dupax del Norte, Nueva Vizcaya" nonfiltered="19" processed="19" dbindex="18">

Mabasa is a barangay of Dupax del Norte in the province of Nueva Vizcaya, Philippines. It was one of the oldest barrio of Dupax (when the town was not yet divided into two, Dupax del Norte and Dupax del Sur). Mabasa was originally called San Roque, named by the parish priest of Dupax after the saint of hunters because the place then was a thick forest where game was abundant such as deers and wild pigs.

History.
The first settlers of San Roque were Ilokano migrants from the town of Paoay in Ilocos Norte and from Alcala and San Nicolas towns in Pangasinan. They travelled by foot and by horses and carabaos through San Nicolas, Pangasinan, passing through Imugan, Santa Fe, Nueva Vizcaya because that was the shortest way possible during those times. The migrants settled at Sitio Poonan (later called Puongan). The family of Apolonio Vadil was the first settler in Poungan. Old records from the Roman Catholic Church in Dupax del Sur showed that the daughter of Apolonio Vadil, Tomasa, was baptized on October 10, 1887.

More migrants came and settled along the Apean (Apayan) River from Puongan upstream and occupied the western part of the barrio now called Riverside East and Riverside West. The settlers found the place always flowing with abundant water coming from a spring in the eastern part of the barrio, and so they called the place "Nabasa" which means "wet" in Iloko language. It was later officially called "Mabasa" changing the old name "San Roque."







ENDOFARTICLE.
</doc>
<doc id="7391102" title="Port Fountain" nonfiltered="20" processed="20" dbindex="19">


Karachi's Port Fountain rises to a height of 620 feet when operating at full force. It is located next to the Oyster Rocks, off the Karachi habour.
ENDOFARTICLE.