

Tefft Middle School is a middle school that educates 7th and 8th graders located at 1100 Shirley Avenue in Streamwood, Illinois. It is a part of School District U46. As of 2006, Tefft serves over 800 students. The principal of Tefft is Lavonne Smiley, the vice principal is David Harshbarger. The dean's Assistant is Anthony Coleman. Tefft also has an on-duty police officer named Joe King.

Special Programs.
Tefft Middle School has several special programs. Tefft has special classes for students who are Hard of Hearing (HOH). It also is one of a few middle schools in U-46 that houses a SWAS (School Within A School) program. SWAS is a program for gifted students. The current SWAS teachers are; Reading Mr. Ziegler, English Mrs. Smerecky, Science Mrs. Hernandez, Social Studies Mrs. Kukla, and Math Mr. McLear.

History.
Tefft Middle school is named after the Tefft Family. The Tefft was an important family in Elgin history. The family helped to begin major farming and industry in the Elgin and Hanover Township area 1835 through the late 1840's. Later in 1852 Phineas Smith hauled milk via an ox team to elgin which was then sent to Chicago on the Galena and Chicago Union railroad. The railroad was built in 1850. Tefft began as the school district's first junior high school and later became a middle school. Tefft middle school was founded in 1964.

Houses of Learning.
Tefft divides its students up into groups called houses (commonly referred to as "cores" or "teams"). All the students in the same house share the same teachers (the only exceptions are physical education and rotation teachers). These are the different houses:
 Athena- includes both 7th and 8th graders;
 Atlantis- includes only 7th graders;
 Atlas- includes both 7th and 8th grade hard of hearing students;
 Gladiators- includes both 7th and 8th grade "SWAS" students;
 Pegasus- includes only 8th grade students;
 Titans- includes only 7th grade students;
 Zeus- includes only 8th grade students;

Extracurricular Activities.
Like most U46 schools, Tefft offers several extracurricular activities.

Band, Orchestra, and Chorus.
Students at Tefft have the opportunity to play in the school band or orchestra. As of 2006, students also have the option to join an in-school choir. The Tefft band is directed by Daniel Dorotiak, the Tefft orchestra by Donna Garcia, and the Tefft Choir by David Hain. Band, orchestra, and chorus members are not able to participate in rotation classes.

Rotation Classes.
Students who do not take band, orchestra, or chorus along with the five "core" classes (Social Studies/History, English, Reading, Math and Science) take "rotation" classes. These classes last six weeks and include drama, music, art, family and consumer sciences, industrial education, and computers.

Sports.
Tefft students can participate in sports. In the fall boys can play football and girls can play volleyball. In the early winter and late winter, students can play on the Tefft basketball team. The sports teams play the teams of all the other middle schools in the district. Tefft and nearby Eastview Middle School and Canton middle school have a small rivalry, due to their close proximity to each other. The boys and girls 7th grade basketball team of 2006 won the district championship, going 13-1 for both genders.

Feeder Schools.
Student attending Tefft come from several different feeder schools. Students from either Heritage, Parkwood, Glenbrook, Horizon, or Sunnydale Elementary Schools attend Tefft after completing 6th grade. After completing 8th grade, these students will attend Streamwood High School. Students who attended Horizon Elementary School and Ontarioville Elementary School will attend Bartlett High School. Some will attend South Elgin High School.Students who apply for educational academies in 8th grade will attend the high school where the academy is housed.

External links.
Tefft's website

See also.
 Elgin Area School District U46;


